>> Brian Holt: Let's go and
write our Node server now.
So create a new file, let's save that,
and where do I put this?
Typically you would have, this is
the source directory for our application,
your Node server's gonna be
more complicated than one file.
Our is not, so I'm just gonna put it in
the root directory and call it Server.js.
But if you had multiple files, I'd
probably have like a server side folder
and a client side code folder,
but for now, server.js is good.
>> Brian Holt: Here and
we're gonna do a bunch of stuff like this,
import Express from express,
import React from react.
Import renderToString
from react-dom/server.
Import ServerLocation
from @reach/router.
Import fs from fs, and
import App from ./
>> Brian Holt: src/App, okay?
So let's talk about some of
the things we imported up here.
First thing,
I'm still using ES6 modules and
this is gonna work in Node because
everything is being run through Babel.
Typically, Node does not
understand modules like this.
You typically have to do something
like const express = require express,
common JS modules as they are called.
But because everything is being run
through Babel I can do it like this and
I like to keep things uniform if I can,
so this is fine.
>> Brian Holt: React, I think that's self
evidence where that's coming from and
why we need it.
RenderToString, so we've seen render and
we've seen hydrate before, but
what renderToString does exactly that.
It's going to take our
Node application and
generate the HTML as a string which then
we can insert into our HTML file, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, ServerLocation, this
one is kind of an interesting one because
our routing is happening
on the client side, right?
So we wouldn't need this if we weren't
using, this is, sorry, reach/router.
Yep, reach/router like that,
not react/router, on line 4 there.
Make sure that is an h, or
else you're gonna have a bad day.
ServerLocation is going to help us
do all of the client side routing.
But it's gonna execute all of
the reach/router code inside of Node, so
that all the routing maps up together.
So this makes it really
easy to do routing.
We just let reach/router handle all
of the redirects and stuff like that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
make it's all super simple.
Okay, underneath that I wanna say const
PORT = process.env.PORT or 3000.
So if you wanna deploy
this to like Azure or
something like that, what Azure
will do when it starts up a server,
it will pass in the port that that
application needs to be listening on.
It's gonna be something like 80,
it could be 5,000, you don't know what
it's gonna be, but if you don't pass into
port then go ahead and use port 3000.
This is just a good habit
to be into with Node,
then we're going to read in our HTML
we generate from our build process.
So, this is going to be done with the fs
module which stands for file system,
fs readFileSync from dist/index.html.
>> Brian Holt: .toString.
So this is going to read
the generated mark up, right.
Which is gonna have all the correct
file paths and all the CSS, and
all that stuff is gonna be built for us.
We're going to read it in here, this
comes in as a buffer and we set it out
the string which is what this is gonna
be a string of that HTML, right?
So it's gonna be a string of,
see if I can just show you really quickly
what it looks like, index.html, right?
So this has like a style path,
I like to correct all
the stuff will be done, so
this is going to be loaded in
the string here in this HTML.
Const app = express,
this will start the application,
or not start it but
allow us to start configuring it.
First thing is we need
to use app.use stop,
app.use/dist express.static('dist').
So, anytime anyone makes
a request to /dist on our server,
look at our dist directory,
insert that statically, so
all of our HTML, CSS,
images will come from that dist directory.
So, for every other request that comes
in we're gonna give it this handler.
So this will be run on every other request
that doesn't hit that first handler.
>> Brian Holt: Const reactMarkup =, and
we're gonna wrap it in ServerLocation,
url is going to be equal to req.url.
So if someone calls with slash search
params, we need to render that page,
right?
So that's what ServerLocation and req url
does, is it passes slash search params
into the ServerLocation, which will
make sure that app renders correctly.
>> Brian Holt: And again,
this is being run through babel so
we're free to jsx directly in our Node.
>> Brian Holt: Then,
>> Brian Holt: We
have something that needs to happen here.
So if we go into index.html,
our code goes here, right?
Inside of what says not rendered.
So how do we render the string
markup that we just did,
how do we render that
specifically into here?
>> Brian Holt: There's a bunch of
ways that you can do this, and
I'll let you pick your favorite.
The way that we did it at Netflix,
is we actually had all of
this living inside of React and so
React generated the whole document.
That's fine, I think it's a little bit
overkill because that React will only be
run server side, right?
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna give you
the absolute simplest way to do this.
But feel free to use something like
Lodash templating or handle bars,
like any sort of templating language
would make this pretty easy.
For our specific used
case we have two parts.
The part that comes
before not rendered and
the part that comes after not rendered,
right?
And then when everything else
goes in the middle of that.
Well, this comes in as a string and
if I have a before part and
an after part and a delimiter,
can I just use string.split?
Sure, why not, it will work.
>> Brian Holt: It will be fast too.
So if I come in here to server.js, and
often times what people do is they'll
just have two different strings
exported from some document and
then just read from that,
and that's fine too.
But what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
say const parts = html.split.
And actually, we can do this outside of
this cuz this doesn't have to happen.
We can do this once cuz it never changes,
so up here, const parts = html.split.
And we're gonna split around not rendered.
>> Brian Holt: Right, so this is gonna
give me back two things, everything that
comes before not rendered, everything
else that comes after not rendered.
And because you use split,
it doesn't keep not rendered in there,
cuz that's the delimiter.
>> Brian Holt: Makes sense?
It's a JavaScript thing,
there's nothing specific to React here.
So now I have two parts here and
I can say res.send.
>> Brian Holt: And I'm gonna use a HTML
template stream with the back ticks,
first part is gonna be parts[0].
Second part is gonna be renderToString
>> Brian Holt: reactMarkup.
And the third part is gonna be parts[1]
>> Brian Holt: And that works.
So now at the end here after I send
that I can just say res.end, that's it.
>> Brian Holt: Just throw
in here console.log
>> Brian Holt: Listening on port, just so
we know that the server is up and
I need to make that a template string,
not a normal string.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then at the very
last thing is app.listen on PORT, okay?
>> Brian Holt: So
let's go see how that works,
hopefully it just works, npm run start.
>> Brian Holt: So it's gonna run
that build process first again,
if you're on Windows
npm run build first and
then run npm run start
>> Brian Holt: You can see
there that`s everything that it generated,
>> Brian Holt: Throw error,
one we gonna solve.
>> Brian Holt: I think
I did this wrong here.
So I just called the server.js right here,
that's gotta be correct.
>> Brian Holt: So that's the part,
I took out service/index.js and
I just make this server.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now we're gonna do npm run start again.
>> Brian Holt: Listening on 3000.
So now, hopefully I can just come in
here to 3000 and it's working, right?
Our application works,
all that stuff is working, so
React is obviously working cuz it's
doing all that client set handling.
But let's take a look at what
happens if I look at interact here.
And I'm going to,
let's just throttle this.
>> Brian Holt: So we refresh the page,
notice it comes in with complete markup.
Let's even go one step further and
say, settings, disable JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: No throttling there we go,
Settings, and disable JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: So now JavaScript
is disabled on this page, right?
So this actually is not gonna work.
If I choose dog, it's not going to go
request anything because it has no code
governing that, but
this is complete markup, right?
Go even one step further, you can
view source up here and you can see
coming in here is like you have the label,
and the value, and all that kind of stuff.
On the first page load it appears to
load much quicker because you get
complete markup.
So you're immediately
showing the user something,
this is a big win for
perceived performance, right?
The page is not actually loading any
faster, if we're gonna get really into it,
technically server side
rendering it's not free, right?
It does have to do some rendering and
some work at the back-end.
So you might be slowing down your
time to interact a little bit,
but you can be a big winner you show
something to the user right away.
And so the user will immediately see
something to have to start deciding what
they wanna do, right?
Like am looking at this page, is like
do I really wanna search in Seattle?
And by the time you click on here and
start typing in here,
hopefully you've loaded, right?
Because that's good half second that
someone has to take make a decision and
click on something.
So it's a big win for,
cuz it feels like it's loaded instantly.